# EFK Logging
EFK stands for Elasticsearch Fluentd Kibana stack of looging software.

Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana (EFK) form a powerful stack for logging and log analysis in Kubernetes environments. This logging solution offers robust capabilities for collecting, processing, storing, and visualizing logs, enabling efficient troubleshooting, monitoring, and analysis within Kubernetes clusters.

# ELASTICSEARCH
Firstly, Elasticsearch serves as the heart of the EFK stack, providing a distributed and scalable platform for storing and indexing log data. It allows for fast and flexible searching, making it easy to retrieve relevant logs across large datasets. In a Kubernetes context, Elasticsearch clusters can be deployed to handle high volumes of log data generated by containerized applications and system components.

Now create a namespace where all logging resources will reside. Do:
$ kubectl apply -f 01_Namespace.yml

Afterwards, you can now deploy elastiicsearch service and statefulset yml files:

$ kubectl apply -f 02_Elasticsearch_Service.yml
$ kubectl apply -f 02_Elasticsearch_StatefulSet.yml

# FLUENTD
Secondly, Fluentd acts as the central log aggregator within the EFK stack. It collects logs from various sources within the Kubernetes cluster, including application containers, system logs, and other Kubernetes components. Fluentd then processes and forwards these logs to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. Its versatility allows Fluentd to handle different log formats and sources, making it suitable for diverse Kubernetes environments.

$ kubectl apply -f 04_Fluenrd_ConfigMap.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f 04_Fluenrd_Deployment.yaml

# KIBANA
Finally, Kibana provides a user-friendly interface for visualizing and analyzing log data stored in Elasticsearch. With Kibana, users can create custom dashboards, perform ad-hoc searches, and generate insightful visualizations to gain valuable insights into application performance, system behavior, and operational issues within the Kubernetes cluster. Kibana's intuitive interface empowers both developers and operations teams to quickly identify and troubleshoot issues, improving overall system reliability and efficiency.

$ kubectl apply -f Kibana_Deployment.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f Kibana_Service.yaml

# DEPLOYING EFK
Deploying EFK logging to a Kubernetes cluster involves setting up Elasticsearch, Fluentd, and Kibana components, configuring them to work seamlessly together, and integrating them with the Kubernetes logging infrastructure. This deployment typically includes defining Fluentd configurations to collect logs from various sources, deploying Elasticsearch clusters for data storage and indexing, and setting up Kibana for log visualization and analysis. Additionally, fine-tuning configurations, optimizing resource allocation, and implementing best practices ensure optimal performance and reliability of the logging solution within the Kubernetes environment.

# CONCLUSION
In summary, EFK logging provides a comprehensive and scalable solution for logging in Kubernetes environments, offering powerful capabilities for collecting, processing, storing, and analyzing log data. By deploying EFK logging to a Kubernetes cluster, organizations can gain valuable insights into their applications and infrastructure, improve troubleshooting efficiency, and enhance overall operational visibility and control.